---
bdp: 009
title: Mortgage Specification
author: Kayode Odeyemi
discussions-to: https://github.com/huntrecht/BDPs/issues/7
status: Draft
type: Standards Track
category: Interface
created: 2018-09-04
---
# Mortgage

## Abstract
Mortgage, Real estate asset backed securities. Real estate markets should be liquid enough to attract all kinds of investors to take part actively in the market.

## Motivation and Requirements
All assets should be securitized. Real estate should be one of them.

## Use Cases / Scenarios
### Investment
Everyone with some cash or money in the bank is an investor. We are all looking
for returns on some form of investment.

### Interest rate
Bank interest rates from loans and mortgage interest rates

### Rent
Rent is a recurring revenue. A steady revenue makes increases asset valuation.

### Prepayments
Borrowers should be able to repay in excess of expected scheduled principal
repayments.

### Distribution
Investors get monthly distribution of the principal repayments and in tranches

### Foreclosure
A lender(Bank) to repossess the property in case of a default from the borrower. Define your own foreclosure rules

### Refinancing
If consumers don't like your existing mortgage contract, you should be able to trade in for a new favourable contract.

### Documents
Documentation should be readily available in a real estate project.

### Tokens
Asset ownership and valuation

### Brokerage
Real estate assets should be tradable with ease. A market is efficient when
buyers and sellers are easily found.

### Insurance
All trades should be insured.

## Specification
```
message Asset {
    string name = 1;
    double price = 2;
    string description = 3;
    repeated documents = 4;
}

message Transaction {
    string type = 1; // rent, mortgage, balloon, sell, invest
    Asset asset = 2;
    string userId = 3;
}

message OwnedAsset {
    string userId = 1;
    Asset asset = 2;
}

message Tranches {
    Asset asset = 1;
    repeated investors = 2;
}

message InterestRate {
    string value = 1;
    string type = 2;
}
```

### Methods

#### buy

Purchase an asset

`rpc buy(Asset) returns ()`

#### sell

Sell an asset

`rpc sell(Asset) returns ()`

#### buyInsurance

Buy a trade protection

`rpc buyInsurance(Asset) returns ()`

#### prepay

`rpc prepay(Asset) returns ()`

#### schedulePayments

Schedule payment on a asset

`rpc schedulePayments(Asset) returns ()`

#### addDocument

Add documents to an asset

`rpc addDocument(Asset) returns ()`

#### foreclose

Foreclose an asset

`rpc foreclose(OwnedAsset) returns ()`

#### setInterestRate

Banks should be able to set own interest rate

`rpc setInterestRate(InterestRate) returns ()`

#### computeInterestRate

`rpc computeInterestRate(InterestRate) returns ()`

#### setTranches

Configure Tranches to be used in distribution.

`rpc setTranches(Tranches) returns ()`

#### performSettlement

Distribution is made in Tranches

`rpc performSettlement(Asset) returns ()`

## Copyright
Copyright and related rights waived via
[CC0](https://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/).
